Key words
---------

Quantum-criticality, valence-bond solid, quantum spin liquid, fractionalization



Glossary
--------

lattice model: 
a Hamiltonian of bosons, fermions, and/or spins defined on a spatial lattice, 
typically corresponding to or inspired by the degrees of freedom of a solid. Such 
models can now some times also be directly realized in ultracold-atom systems 
in optical lattices.

field theoretic description: 
A continuum description of a lattice model which captures certain asymptotic 
(low-energy, long-distance, etc.) features of the lattice model exactly.

quantum Monte Carlo:
A class of computational algorithms for interacting quantum systems. Monte Carlo 
importance-sampling methods are used in a comfiguration space of classical variables
obtained by transforming the quantum-mechanical problem into such a form without
diagonalizing the Hamiltonian, using one of many possible schemes.

sign problem:
The inability, in practice, to transform a quantum-mechanical problem (ground state
or finite-temperature) into a non-negative definite sum over classical variables
(thus leading to exponential scaling of quantum Monte Carlo schemes)

unbiased numerical method: 
A numerical method in which quantitative calculations of observables are possible for 
a microscopic model of finite size without invoking any approximation or asymptotic 
condition, with the exception of statistical errors (in Monte Carlo based methods) 
for which the numerical errors are purely statistical, can be estimated quantitatively,
and reduced to an arbitrary low level with increasing computation time.

Acronyms
--------

BFG : Balents-Fisher-Girvin

DMRG : density matrix renormalization group

DQC : deconfined quantum-critical

LRE : long-range entanglement

LRO : long-range order

QDM : quantum dimer model

QMC : quantum Monte Carlo

QSL : quantum spin liquid

RG : renormaliztion group

SSE : stochastic series expansion

SW : Swendsen-Wang

VBL : valence-bond liquid

VBS : valence-bond solid


Summary points
--------------

- Thanks to algorithmic advances during the past two decades, QMC simulations have reached the point 
  where the asymptotic low-energy limit can truly be reached and one can make direct connections with 
  effective quantum field theories.

- QMC is the only numerical method that can study model Hamiltonians in two and higher dimensions in 
  computational time that scales polynomially with system size without any systematical errors.

- A number of "designer Hamiltonians" have been studied that exhibit highly non-trivial non-magnetic
  states of interacting quantum spin systems, including "deconfined" quantum-critical points and associated
  valence-bond solid states with emergent U(1) gauge fields, as well as Z2 quantum spin liquids.

- Generalizations of standard SU(2) quantum spins to SU(N) offer opportunities to test field-theories in
  the large-N limit; such a test of the theory of deconfined quantum-critical points shows good agreement
  between simulations and analytic theory.

- Studies of SU(N) models in bilayer geometry show explicitly the role of Berry phases at quantum phase
  transitions.

- Strongly frustrated XXZ spin models have been studied that exhibit the hallmarks of quantum spin
  liquids; long-range entanglement and fractionalization.

Future Issues
-------------

- Carry out QMC calculations for larger lattices for the SU(N) models, to reduce
  the error bars on the extracted critical exponents. Analytical results based on
  the large-N expansion can hopefully also be carried out to the next orders in 1/N, 
  to carry out detailed comparisons with the QMC results.

- Study effects of disorder (random couplings, dilution) and isolated impurities
  on the ground states and phase transitions discussed.

- Construct SU(N) designer Hamiltonians with Z2 spin-liquid ground states; may have to
  be done in conjunction with QMC algorithm in a non-trivial basis allowing non-Marshall
  sign structure of the ground state wave function.



Annotated references
--------------------

[9]  The loop algorithm, which speed up some QMC calculations by many orders
     of magnitude, was first demonstrated here for a classical vertex model.

[13] Demonstrated the close connection between loop algorithms and ground-state 
     projection of SU(2) models in the valence-bond basis. 

[16] The QMC estimator for the Renyi entanglement entropies was presented here
     and its practical utility was demonstrated for several quantum spin systems.

[21] Reported the first detailed field-theoretic study of the nonlinear sigma-model 
     description of the 2D Heisenberg model; demonstrated the existence of a T>0 
     quantum-critical scaling regime.

[23] Introduced the concept of a DQC point and proposed its field-theoretic
     description in terms of the non-compact CP1 model, with generalization
     to CP(N-1) for SU(N) symmetry.

[84] Made the observation that the SU(N) Neel-VBS transition can be studied with
     QMC for any N>4 in a J1-J2 Heisenberg model; results showed good agreement
     with analytic 1/N expansions.

[99] Demonstrated analytically that an SU(N) generalization of the 2D Heisenberg model 
     hosts a columnar VBS ground state for large N.

[102] Introduced the J-Q model; the first sign-problem free SU(2) model exhibiting a 
      Neel-VBS transition. QMC results suggested a continuous transition. 

[165] Presented the first study of SU(N) bilayer models and through numerical
      simulations demonstrated the importance of Berry phases at Neel-VBS transitions.    

[184] Demonstrated a spin liquid and an XY* transition in a hard-core bose model; 
      showed how fractionalization can be detected using winding numbers.


