Dear Editor,


We unfortunately feel that the "adverse" critique of referee A is sufficiently incorrect as to shed doubt on his suitability as a reviewer, reflecting some underlying aversion to the field or other bias.  First, to address a few points:

1) The referee twice refers to the valence-bond QMC calculation as occurring on a "toy model":

> They conclude that the behavior derived from the entropy
> on the RVB model, a kind of "toy model", could not be valid for
> the Heisenberg model 
  and
> I also think that the contribution of this
> manuscript to that program is not important since it is essentially
> a criticism to an early proposed "toy model" which I doubt was a
> serious contribution to this field.

This is a serious mis-understanding.  The VB QMC calculation is on the Heisenberg model itself - the same strongly-interacting quantum spin model as the DMRG considers.  The main difference is that the model is projected onto two different bases: the Sz basis in the DMRG, and the valence-bond basis in the QMC.  The approach to solving this model in each case is also different - one a renormalization scheme and one a stochastic monte carlo - but in both cases the results for thermodynamic estimators are obtained essentially without bias, and agree with each other completely.  The referee seems to miss the main point of the paper in that we are comparing two different definitions of entanglement entropy calculated in the same model, not two different models.

2) In the case that point is taken to be semantical, we also reject the notion that the VB entanglement entropy was not a serious contribution to the field.  In contrast, it represents the first attempt to measure non-trivial entanglement properties in unbiased 2D simulations, and there have been many papers citing it since the first publications of reference 7 and 8.  Further, even before the idea of the valence bond entropy, bond length distributions are well studied, dating back to the early days of RVB.

3) Contrary to the referee's criticism , this is not just a "methodological" paper - we present some new and important physics.  In particular, this is the *first ever* demonstration of area law behavior for a non-trivial interacting system.  People have calculated entanglement entropy for free fermions and bosons, and there are some toy Hamiltonian with exact PEPS ground states where it has been calculated, but no one has ever before shown the area law for an interesting interacting model such as this. 


In light of this, we respectfully ask that the editor disregard Referee A's report, due to what we feel are glaring indicators of misunderstanding and/or bias.  We hope that the strength of Referee B's report would be sufficient to warrant acceptance to PRL: if the editor however chooses to send the manuscript for further review, we request that he choose a third referee in lieu of Referee A.

Thank you,
Ann Kallin, Ivan Gonzalez, Matthew Hastings, and Roger Melko
